It's this light-heartedness that keeps Captain America: Civil War from succumbing to the kind of pretentiousness that marred Batman V. Superman.
The most mature, smart and fun Marvel movie. [Full review in Spanish]
Marvel's response to superhero fatigue, then, is clear: Double-down on character and up the storytelling's short game as well as its long game. It's an old-fashioned strategy, and it absolutely works.
Marvel, with its comic strip cool, Industrial Light & Magic control of gravity, what may be the largest ensemble of characters in its movie history and visual artistry, has done it again.
It wields an equally large cast with surprising dexterity, never losing sight of which players matter most to the story it's trying to tell.
Joe and Anthony Russo effectively hit the pause button on the Avengers franchise to address the human cost of "collateral damage," while still delivering the impressive action we\'ve come to expect from the Marvel franchise.
Civil War is fun. It's smart. It's coherent. And, most importantly, it allows its heart to beat strongly amid the chaos, with character moments and set pieces working in tandem to create perhaps Marvel's best film so far.
It's more of the same, of course it has a little more entertainment, but it's the same tendency to repeat what has worked in the past, nothing new. [Full review in Spanish]
This satisfying adventure is rich with the things Marvel comics always did best: critiquing the consequences of power in explosive, four-color form.
Like guest star Ant-Man in his new Giant-Man identity, this somewhat ungainly Marvel sequel almost collapses under its own weight.
In Captain America: Civil War, the intelligent plotting, thoughtful character development and blockbuster action of the past two instalments comes to a thrilling apex.
Anthony and Joe Russo's first-rate feature provides both invigorating action and genuine contemplation. It's an engaging superhero movie that actually ponders the human cost of doing all that cool stuff.
On par with the recent Avengers combo films, but quite inferior to the prior Captain America outing.
Very entertaining, and a far tighter production than much of Marvel's recent output.
Not the best Marvel movie, but does do the best job balancing its obligations, while also boasting the series' best action sequence (Splice Today) 
A good, disposable piece of FX-driven entertainment, even if it comes with the obligatory one-act storyline, lack of originality and 30-minute over-run.
Anthony and Joe Russo make a cheerful show of it, giving their gee-whiz comic book audience all they could wish for -- and more. But that's the problem -- it's still just 90 minutes worth of story stretched out to two-and-a-half hours.
It's this levity that makes the much-touted battle royale between Team Cap and Team Iron Man so much fun.
Hey, two superheroes can do battle without totally sucking. 
The fact that Civil War ponders the importance of those who've died in conflicts doesn't add complexity to the film, it just fills it with hipocrisy. [Full review in Spanish]
a rip-snorting action adventure with a clever plot that appeals to both the fan-boy and fan-girl, as well as an intelligent consideration of the uses and responsibilities of power
POW! Crammed with action, it's a superhero slog as the Marvel Cinematic Universe marches on...
Captain America: Civil War is the movie equivalent of the all-dressed potato chip: A junk food classic that can't be denied, but can never truly satisfy our desire for something original.
Above all, it's simply a well-made movie: juggling a staggering number of characters with absolute effortlessness and readily expanding Marvel's collection of heroes without cramming them in.
Captain America: Civil War is precisely crafted as one of the best comic book films of all time. It's as if Return of the Jedi stole all of the action sequences from Die Hard: With a Vengeance and Mad Max: Beyond Thunderdome. 
Captain America: Civil War is a great superhero blockbuster that lays the groundwork for even bigger and better things to come in Phase 3 of the MCU.
a powerful film dealing with complex human emotions with roots in revenge and loyalty
A perfectly well paced and coherent tale about revenge and the question of absolute power resulting in absolute corruption.
Civil War maintains the same balance of action and significant (if brief) character development/interaction that made Winter Soldier so enjoyable.
An entertaining, intelligent, and smart film for a blockbuster. Definately not just for fans. [Full review in Spanish]
The film flows smoothly because of the great physical and verbal gags, but also because of the perfectly constructed fight scenes. [Full review in Spanish]
Exciting and ingeniously conceived, this is Marvel working at the top of its cinematic game.
Buckle in. The ultimate battle of superhero titans is about to take off in Marvel's Captain America: Civil War and hold onto your seats, folks, because this is one helluva ride - and the best Marvel movie to date.
Massive, overstuffed, overlong and yet fleet-footed, witty and terrifically entertaining.
Slid off my senses like Thor's hammer across Cap's vibranium shield -- the powerhouse hits land without so much as a scratch.
The sad middle-aged dudes who cling so desperately to these films require constant reassurances that they're not just fun stories for children in which men wear tights.
Listening to the applause of cheers for deaths and devastation was a bit scary and more and more what we are seeing in real life. No wonder why!
The latest Marvel movie to build on the series' past while setting up its future, Captain America: Civil War is also the most ambitious film yet in that comic-book cinematic universe.
Civil War's conflict is earned rather than contrived. It's the culmination of tense friendships and strained egos that Marvel has cultivated for years. The stakes feel real, which gives this comic book spectacle more heft than the genre usually deserves.
The balance that Captain America: Civil War strikes between action, character, emotion, humor, and intellectual debate makes this a compendium of all the best things the Marvel movies have had to offer.
In the end this is a movie about friendships and conflict, and what can happen when the latter overwhelms the former. It's about two genuine heroes who can't reconcile their obligations and duties with the friendship they both cherish.
If there's something that we need to mention above civil war's perfect technical execution and rollercoster rythym, it's the way the characters connect with the audience after many years of exploring them. [Full review in Spanish]
The "civil war" that erupts among Avengers foments filmmaking invention, not anarchy. It harks back to a comic-book tradition that predates the Avengers.
The good news about the latest Marvel project to land on the screen is that it's livelier and more entertaining than the other Avenger offerings -- even if this one technically waves the Captain America banner.
Civil War makes a pretense of pondering the consequences of going rogue. But Marvel is all about playing it safe.
Downey Jr. persists in trying to give a real performance in these Marvel movies, and, against all odds, succeeds.
The super-charged 'Captain America: Civil War' is a winner. 
Dependable, reliable, comforting - like ordering at a chain restaurant. You know what kind of meal you're going to get every time, and you'll most likely enjoy it.
Highly entertaining.
Splitsville followed by biffo, all with an extremely agreeable light touch.
My biggest complaint --- and one I\'m weary of repeating --- is the habit of such films to include massive carnage by bombings, guns, car chases, etc. "Captain America: Civil War" would have been every bit as entertaining without this excessive violence. 
"Captain America: Civil War" has some surprises, but the battle scenes --- here we go again --- are far too long. 
The action-packed and daring Captain America: Civil War is the most game-changing chapter in the Marvel Cinematic Universe since -- well, since Captain America: The Winter Soldier.
It's sure to please those who beat up on Batman v. Superman because it mixes lots of quips in with the action, the moralizing, and the tragic revelations.
An impressive achievement, though not an especially interesting one. 
A blockbuster among blockbusters.
CA:CV moves along at a brisk pace, the effects are fantastic and the superhero line-up is the best we have seen since Avengers Assemble. Bottom line, CA:CV is an entertaining film with some great action sequences.
Simply put, when it comes to juggling multiple superheroes in a single movie, Marvel's latest comes close to setting the standard. And the studio, as well as the villagers, should have cause to rejoice.
As overwhelming as all this seems, the story stays incredibly focused on what defines Steve Rogers...
Mostly, this one registers as sound and fury, signifying sequels.
It isn't a perfect effort, but it's plenty to reach summer blockbuster status, and Civil War will leave fans salivating for the next installment in the series.
Not as bad as Batman v. Superman. But way too long and dumb. Who believes they are out to kill one another?
This movie feels like the fanboy event we've been sold before that wasn't delivered, epically constructed and briskly paced.
Intense, entertaining adventure is a great threequel.
It's the Vibranium standard for super-team flicks.
"...for me to consider Captain America: Civil War a good movie - good enough to make me forget Prince had just died - it must be pretty good indeed. 
...while one of the story lines does pick up from Captain America: The Winter Soldier, it's Iron Man who steals the show.
Damned if it isn't fun to watch Spider-Man pull off a Johnny Lawrence-approved leg sweep of Captain America.
Civil War is a shiny, inoffensive product meant to make millions for Disney on a global scale. It also delivers more pure entertainment than any film in recent memory.
A big, sprawling superhero mega-movie, with more spandex to the gallon than any flick that's come down the pike in a long time.
...make no mistake, this movie plays like a third "Avengers" film hidden within the thin, sub-hero veneer. 
Scads of characters, oodles of travel, acres of eye-punishing shakey-cam action - the movie's excess of just about everything overwhelms its virtues. 
The Russos devote substantial time undoing the incoherent mess Joss Whedon left behind in AGE OF ULTRON...
A non-stop action movie, but they can't stop the deeper, more interesting film emerging.
Civil War reminds us it's OK to enjoy a few laughs, even while diabolical villains plot doom, outraged citizens demand accountability and your best pal mistrusts you.
As long as talented, passionate filmmakers continue to be brought aboard to take these stories and characters in fresh directions, there is no reason to expect this massive franchise will grow stale or lose its vitality anytime soon.
This is a stark example of what movies have become, which is intellectual diarrhea...there is no acting...just one ridiculous fight after another between and among people who are more or less invulnerable. But, get used to it. This junk makes money. 
Civil War is much better than Age of Ultron, but as a sequel of The Winter Soldier it falls short. [Full review in Spanish]
There remains a lot to like about it, such as an opening battle offering some sparkling 3-D effects, the thrilling final showdown, and its showcase cast. 
...just another loud, overblown Marvel misfire...
SO entertaining it wll feel short, even if it's two and a half hours. I wanted more. Please give us more! [Full review in Spanish]
Captain America and Iron Man almost represent the schism that now divides American voters, politicians, and pundits. I say "almost," because the film...doesn\'t inspire reflection upon the dire seriousness of our current ideological civil war.
The fact that a Marvel movie dares to question the big, shiny spectacle that is its bread and butter - and acknowledge that untold thousands die in the name of entertainment - seems rather novel. 
When I saw that this was going to be a clash of superheroes, with former friends fighting each other, I wondered how they were going to set it up. Very carefully, it turns out, with a solid screenplay and strong performances.
A magnificent superhero film, with endearing characters, humor and action to go with an interesting plot and a well told story. [Full review in Spanish]
The Russo Brothers created and exciting film with one of the best action scenes in the whole MCU. [Full review in Spanish]
(Visually), the Russos aim for clarity and hit the bullseye. And more importantly, they'll satisfy a core audience of fan-types that can be, shall we say, high-maintenance.
"Civil War" invites too many people to the party and is a little too beholden to other once-and-future movies to match the excellence of its predecessors. 
http://www.spiritualityandpractice.com/films/reviews/view/28172/captain-america-civil-war
Captain America and Iron Man have always had a humorously antagonistic relationship, with the former's red-white-and-blue purity conflicting with the latter's narcissistic vulgarity, so watching them truly at odds with each other packs a punch
The motto of the directors, Anthony and Joe Russo, appears to be: If you can make it happen, do it. Don't hold back.
Marvel has defied expectations yet again with this action-packed but thought-provoking entry that masterfully introduces Tom Holland as the next Spider-Man.
A barely adequate, tonally berserk lyric to the pains of franchise building. In other words, it does absurdly little with a whole lot.
An underwhelming exercise in sound and fury striclty for brains on pause. .
The fun and excitement of Captain America: Civil War carries it through a slow start and weak premise. It sets up great expectations for new chapters, and after this epic fracturing of their Avengers friendship, we want to know where they go from here.
As they did in Winter Soldier, the Russos have achieved an uncommon balance of plot and action, humor and drama, all of it once again deeply grounded in character.
Dull, overlong, exhausting and mildly entertaining without rising to the heights of the first Captain America's palpable thrills, suspense and intrigue
Cap has not just saved the world, he's saved a comic book universe from complacency by boldly raising the ante on all who dare follow this wonderful, magnificent entertainment. 
In an era when superhero flicks hit theaters with the same frequency as bugs hit windshields, Captain America: Civil War still manages to rise above the fray and declare itself one of the finest pictures yet from Team Stan Lee.
These are real characters, not empty action figures, and they're the reason the MCU has gone from success to success while other superhero franchises have stumbled or stalled.